Absolute and relative positioning are two CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) properties used to control the placement of elements on a webpage.
They are both positioning schemes that help define the layout of elements, but they work in different ways.

Absolute Positioning:

When an element is positioned absolutely, it is taken out of the normal flow of the document.
It is positioned relative to its nearest positioned ancestor, if any; otherwise, it's positioned relative to the initial containing block (usually the viewport).
Absolute positioning is often used when you want to place an element at a specific location on the page, regardless of the surrounding elements.
The element's position is specified using the top, right, bottom, and left properties, which determine the distance from the edges of its containing box.


.absolute-positioned {
  position: absolute;
  top: 10px;
  left: 20px;
}


Relative Positioning:

When an element is positioned relatively, it is still a part of the normal flow of the document. It is positioned relative to its normal position in the document flow.
If you move an element with relative positioning, it will be offset from its normal position, but the space it originally occupied is still reserved for it in the layout.
The top, right, bottom, and left properties can also be used with relative positioning to shift the element from its normal position.


.relative-positioned {
  position: relative;
  top: 10px;
  left: 20px;
}
Key Differences:

Absolute positioning takes the element out of the normal flow, while relative positioning keeps the element in the normal flow but allows for adjustment.
Absolute positioning is relative to the nearest positioned ancestor, while relative positioning is relative to the element's normal position.
When you use absolute positioning, the positioned element is removed from the document flow, and other elements act as if it's not there.
With relative positioning, the element still occupies space in the normal flow